---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"2024-es242/Q01","permalink":"/2024-es242/q01/"}
---

## Quiz on 08-08-2024


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">



> [!question]- Identify Blocking Pairs
> 
> Consider the following instance of the stable matching problem for 4 men (PQRS) and 4 women (WXYZ).  
>   
> ```plaintext
> P: W>X>Y>Z   
> Q: X>Y>Z>W   
> R: W>X>Z>Y   
> S: X>Y>W>Z  
> ``` 
> 
> and  
> 
> ```plaintext
> W: S>Q>R>P  
> X: P>S>Q>R  
> Y: R>P>Q>S  
> Z: R>P>S>Q
> ```
> 
> Consider the following matching:  _M= {(P, W),(Q, X),(R, Z),(S, Y)}_. 
> 
> Which of the following is a blocking pair in this given matching $M$?
> 
> - [ ] P-X
> - [ ] Q-Y
> - [ ] R-W
> - [ ] S-X

> [!answer]- Spoilers
> 
> The solution below follows from a straightforward examination of the definition of blocking pairs in the context of the given example.
> 
> - [ ] P-X
> - [ ] Q-Y
> - [X] R-W
> - [X] S-X

</div></div>


---


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">



> [!question]- Best Pair Match
> True or false?  In every instance of the Stable Matching Problem, there is a stable matching containing a pair (m, w) such that m is ranked first on the preference list of w and w is ranked first on the preference list of m.

> [!answer]- Spoilers
> False. Consider an instance where there are two men (`a` and `b`) and two women (`p` and `q`) and assume `a` prefers `p` over `q` and `b` prefers `q` over `p`; while `p` prefers `b` over `a` and `q` prefers `a` over `b`. Then both matchings `((a,p),(b,q))` and `((a,q),(b,p))` are stable, but neither has anyone being matched to mutual favorites.

</div></div>


---


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">



> [!question]- Mutual Favorites Partner in Every Stable Matching
> True or false?  Consider an instance of the Stable Matching Problem in which there exists a man m and a woman w such that m is ranked first on the preference list of w and w is ranked first on the preference list of m.  Then, in every stable matching S for this instance, the pair (m, w) belongs to S.

> [!answer]- Spoilers
> True. If a stable matching does not match `m` to `w`, then `(m,w)` will be a blocking pair by definition, and the matching would then not be stable, a contradiction

</div></div>


---

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">



> [!question]- Mutual Haters Never Partner in Any Stable Matching
> In a stable marriage instance with at least two men and two women, if man M and woman W each put each other at the bottom of their respective preference lists, then M cannot be paired with W in any stable matching.

> [!answer]- Spoilers
> False. Consider an instance where there are two men (`a` and `b`) and two women (`p` and `q`) and assume `a` prefers `p` over `q` and `b` prefers `p` over `q`; while `p` prefers `a` over `b` and `q` prefers `a` over `b`. Then `b` and `q` are as described in the question, but `((a,p),(b,q))` is the _only_ stable mathcing in this instance.

</div></div>

