---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"2024-es242/Q07","permalink":"/2024-es242/q07/","hide":true}
---

## Quiz on 03-09-2024


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">



> [!reference] Based on [this problem](https://codeforces.com/contest/508/problem/D). 

> [!note]- Passwords and Euler Tours: Background
> Background: You have a password which is is a string consisting of n + 2 characters. Your friend briefly has access to the password that you had written in your diary (!!!). You asked for your diary back, naturally.
> 
> Unknown to you, your friend had written all the possible n three-letter continuous substrings of the password on pieces of paper, one for each piece of paper before returning the diary to you. Each three-letter substring was written the number of times it occurred in the password. Thus, your friend ended up with n pieces of paper.
> 
> Can your friend reconstruct your password? In each question below, you are given the information on the scraps of paper. Our goal is to figure out whether or not you can reconstruct the password, to the extent of recovering any string that is consistent with the final set of three-letter strings. If there is no such string, it means that there were errors in the process of copying the password over, and the answer is `no`. However, if any consistent string can be reconstructed, the answer is `yes`.

> [!answer]- Explanation
> Interpret the scraps of paper as a graph. Vertices in this graph will all strings of length 2 and consisting of uppercase and lowercase letters of the latin alphabet. For all 3-letters strings from input — $s_i
s, let's add edge from vertex $s_i[0]s_i[1]$ to $s_i[1]s_i[2]$.
>
> Now we need to find in this graph Euler path. It is easy to check that the password can be reconstructed if and only if this graph admits an Euler tour.

> [!question]- Part 1.
> aca  
> aba  
> aba  
> cab  
> bac

> [!answer]- Spoilers
> Yes


> [!question]- Part 2.
> abc
> bCb
> cb1
> b13

> [!answer]- Spoilers
> Yes

> [!question]- Part 3.
> zHW
> cwx
> xmo
> Wcw
> ox1
> wxm
> mox
> HWc

> [!answer]- Spoilers
> Yes



</div></div>

