---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/descriptions/cs-607/"}
---


> [!NOTE]- About the Course
> > Just as arithmetic deals with integers (with the standard operations), algebra deals with operations in general, analysis deals with functions, geometry deals with rigid shapes, and topology deals with continuity, so does combinatorics deal with configurations. Combinatorics counts, enumerates, examines, and investigates the existence of configurations with certain specified properties. With combinatorics, one looks for their intrinsic properties, and studies transformations of one configuration into another, as well as “subconfigurations” of a given configuration.
> > 
> > _Claude Berge_, Principles of Combinatorics, Dunod, Paris, 1968 (English translation: Academic Press, New York, 1971)
>
> > Mathematics is the art of reducing any problem to linear algebra.
> > 
> > _William Stein_
>
> This course will delve into some special highlights from the field of combinatorics, with a broad emphasis on applications to computer science. We will frequently encounter the use of linear algebraic methods. We will roughly have four major themes: extremal set systems, randomized algorithms, geometry, graphs. Every now and then, we’ll work through “puzzles”, which are questions that have a recreational flavor.

> [!TLDR]- Target Audience
> Did you enjoy Discrete Mathematics? That’s a sign: there’s a good chance you’ll like this too! You might find a slight change of pace and style in the offering, but it will be just as fun and full of awe-inspiring discovery.
>
> If you haven’t done Discrete Mathematics, but you enjoy discret-ey puzzles and questions, you’ll probably also like this.
>
> That said, I am not a recommender algorithm, so please join us for a class or two during the add/drop period to decide if this course is for you :)

> [!Tip]- Pre-requisites
> The course is mostly self-contained, but a general degree of comfort with proofs and some elementary linear algebra would be useful.

> [!reference]- References
> 1. [Thirty-three Miniatures: Mathematical and Algorithmic Applications of Linear Algebra](https://kam.mff.cuni.cz/~matousek/stml-53-matousek-1.pdf) by Jiří Matoušek
> 2. [Extremal Combinatorics: With Applications in Computer Science](https://www.amazon.in/Extremal-Combinatorics-Applications-Computer-Theoretical/dp/3642173632) (Texts in Theoretical Computer Science. An EATCS Series) by Stasys Jukna
> 
> Additional pointers (papers, articles, videos, etc.) specific to each lecture will be provided in the summaries of the course plans. Some lectures may have additional notes linked to from the course plan as well.

---

