---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"2025-CS614-WS01","permalink":"/2025-cs-614-ws-01/"}
---

> [!note]+ Max Coloring: Background
> 
> In this problem we will study a multi-channel wireless mesh network architecture. Let $V_N$ be the set of mesh routers in a mesh network and $E_N$ be the set of pairs of mesh routers which can communicate directly. Each router is equipped with two network interface cards.  
>
> Each router is to be assigned at most two channels, so that every pair of routers that have a direct communication line have a common channel to transmit information on. 
>
> All our routers have a lot to discuss! So we want to open up as many channels as we can: the more channels we have, the less congestion we expect as network traffic ebbs and flows across these routers.
>
> Assume that the mesh network $G := (V_N,E_N)$ is a simple, connected, bipartite, and undirected graph. Let $\ell$ denote the maximum number of channels that we can feasibly open up given the structure of $G$.

> [!question]- Part 1. OPT and matchings
Suppose $G$ has a matching on $k$ edges. What can you say about $\ell$, the optimal solution? Check all true statements.
>
> _The claims being made below are to be checked only if they hold for all instances._
>
> - $\ell \geqslant k$
> - $\ell \geqslant k+1$
> - $\ell \leqslant k$
> - $\ell \leqslant k/2$

> [!question]- Part 2. OPT and vertex cover
> Suppose $G$ has a [vertex cover](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertex_cover) of size at most $t$. What can you say about $\ell$, the optimal solution? Check all true statements.
>
> _The claims being made below are to be checked only if they hold for all instances._
>
> - $\ell \geqslant t$
> - $\ell \leqslant 2t$
> - $\ell \leqslant t+1$
> - $\ell \leqslant t$

> [!question]- Part 3. A 2-approximation
> Describe an algorithm that, given $G$ as input, outputs a valid channel assignment with at least $\ell/2$ channels.
>
> _Hint: use the fact that $G$ is bipartite._

> [!note]+ Parallel Universe Job Scheduling
> 
> We have $n$ jobs $J_1, \ldots, J_n$, and each job has a two-dimensional duration $\langle p_i, q_i \rangle$. We have $m$ machines that exist in two parallel universes $\mathcal{P}$ and $\mathcal{Q}$. 
> 
> When a job $J_i$ is executed on any machine, it consumes $p_i$ units of time in $\mathcal{P}$ and $q_i$ units of time in $\mathcal{Q}$.
> 
> Our goal is to assign the jobs to the machines so that the maximum time to completion across both universes is as small as possible. In particular, let $\sigma: [n] \rightarrow [m]$ denote a schedule, where $\sigma(i)$ denotes the machine that $J_i$ is assigned to. Then the two-dimensional makespan of $\sigma$ is defined as:
> 
> $\max_{1 \leqslant k \leqslant m} \left(\max\left\{\sum_{\{i \in [n] ~|~ \sigma(i)=k\}} p_i, \sum_{\{i \in [n] ~|~ \sigma(i)=k\}} q_i\right\} \right),$
> 
> We update $\sigma$ by assigning $J_t$ to $k^\star$ and move to the next iteration if $t < n$.
>
> and this is what we seek to minimize.


> [!question]- Part 1. Greedy Again - I
> Consider the following greedy approach to this problem: process the jobs in the order they are given; $J_1, \ldots, J_n$. 
> 
> 
> To begin with, all machines have zero load in both universes and $\sigma: \emptyset \rightarrow [m]$ is the empty assignment.
> 
> In the $t^{th}$ iteration ($1 \leqslant t \leqslant n$), suppose our schedule so far is $\sigma: [t-1] \rightarrow [m]$. Consider: 
> 
> 
> 
> $k^\star := \argmin_{1 \leqslant k \leqslant m} \left( \min \left\{ \sum_{\{i \in [n] ~|~ \sigma(i)=k\}} p_i, \sum_{\{i \in [n] ~|~ \sigma(i)=k\}} q_i \right\} \right),$
> 
> which is to say, $k^\star$ is the machine with the lowest load overall; where the load of a machine is interpreted as the smaller of the two loads (between the two universes).
> 
> We update $\sigma$ by assigning $J_t$ to $k^\star$ and move to the next iteration if $t < n$.
>
> Is this a $2$-approximation algorithm?
> 
> - Yes
> - No

> [!question]- Part 2. Greedy Again - II
> Consider the following greedy approach to this problem: process the jobs in the order they are given; $J_1, \ldots, J_n$. 
> 
> 
> To begin with, all machines have zero load in both universes and $\sigma: \emptyset \rightarrow [m]$ is the empty assignment.
>
> In the $t^{th}$ iteration ($1 \leqslant t \leqslant n$), suppose our schedule so far is $\sigma: [t-1] \rightarrow [m]$. Consider: 
>
> 
> 
> $k^\star := \argmin_{1 \leqslant k \leqslant m} \left( \min \left\{ \sum_{\{i \in [n] ~|~ \sigma(i)=k\}} p_i + \sum_{\{i \in [n] ~|~ \sigma(i)=k\}} q_i \right\} \right),$
> 
> which is to say, $k^\star$ is the machine with the lowest load overall; where the load of a machine is interpreted as the smaller of the two loads (between the two universes).
> 
> Is this a $2$-approximation algorithm?
> 
> - Yes
> - No

> [!question]- Part 3. Do we have $3$-approximations?
>
> Which of the following statements is true?
>
> - The first algorithm (from Part 1) is a $3$-approximation algorithm for the parallel-universe scheduling problem.
> - The second algorithm (from Part 2) is a $3$-approximation algorithm for the parallel-universe scheduling problem.